- [Overview](#overview)
- [Development](#development)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
  - [Web](#web)
  - [Electron](#electron)
  - [Mobile](#mobile)
    - [Android](#android)
    - [iOS](#ios)

# Overview

"Ionic Framework focuses on the frontend UX and UI interaction of an app — UI controls, interactions, gestures, animations. It's easy to learn, and integrates with other libraries or frameworks, such as Angular, React, or Vue. Alternatively, it can be used standalone without any frontend framework using a simple script include." https://ionicframework.com/

They claim to be the **only** plattform that can be used to develop apps for all major app stores.

For access to native functionality either [Capacitor](https://capacitorjs.com/) or [Cordova](https://cordova.apache.org/) is used. Capacitor is Ionics official native runtime and is thereby recommended.

The Documnetation is available for all previously mentioned frameworks and is available under https://ionicframework.com/docs.

# Development

As previously stated only one code base is needed from which everything else is created. You can use every editor that is suitable for web technologies. Live Reload is also supported that means you don't have to recompile when you make changes. You can use Javascript frameworks but you don't have to. I tried it with Angular (only deploying a very simple app to Android) and with React (the completed gallery app from the documentation, which uses the camera). Both worked without fiddling arround.

# Deployment

Ionic projects can be deployed to iOS, Android, a Progressive Web App (PWA) and via Electron. Plattform specific generated projects are supposed to be added to source control. The resuting applications have a suprisingly good performance (I don't know if thats true when the appication grows but the developers of Ionic at least say that).

## Web

The project is build for the web via framework specific build scripts (triggered over the Ionic-cli). The result can then be served over a web server (i.e. Apache HTTP Server, NGINX, serve.js, Firebase,...). A Service Workers and Web Manifest can be generated by Ionic to create a PWA. Both of those files can be configured.

## Electron

The documentation doesn't go into detail about that and just refers to the Electron Documentation. But I am sure that it is necessary to build the project first with the Ionic-cli. I haven't tested it because there seems to be nothing special regarding Ionic besides that in that process.

## Mobile

Deployment as an app requires platform native tooling. Despite that Live Reload is supported if configured correctly (setting path to the native IDE in *capacitor.config.json*).

### Android

Deploying to Android requires Android Studio to be installed. First the project is build for the web. After that an Android project is created from the built web app via the Ionic-cli. This results in an Android project that has to be build with Android studio.

### iOS

Sadly i can't test that. But the process is similar to android but before building the project in Xcode, permissions have to be configured.
